.. xraydb documentation master file

X-ray DB: X-ray Reference Data in SQLite
========================================

XrayDB provides Atomic data, characteristic X-ray energies, and X-ray cross
sections for the elements in an SQLite3 database, ``xraydb.sqlite``.  This
file can be used directly with SQLite using standard SQL, or or with any of
several programming language that has an SQLite library.  See
http://sqlite.org for further details on SQLite.  A Python module providing
an interface is also provided.

Because some of the components of the database hold arrays of numbers
(for example, coefficients for interpolation), the arrays are stored in the
database as JSON-encoded strings, and will need to be unpacked to be used.
For reference, see http://json.org.

The project began with the data from the compilation of basic atomic
properties and X-ray absorption edge energies, emission energies, and
absorption cross sections from :cite:author:`Elam_etal`, who assembled data
from a several sources.  More data has since been added additional sources.
Energy widths of core holes for excited electronic levels from
:cite:author:`Keski_Krause` is included.  Elastic X-ray scattering data,
:math:`f_0(q)` is taken from :cite:author:`Waasmaier_Kirfel`.  Resonant
scattering cross sections :math:`f'(E)` and :math:`f''(E)` and absorption
cross sections from :cite:author:`Chantler` (as from
http://www.nist.gov/pml/data/ffast/index.cfm) are also included.

In general, cross sections are in cm^2/gr, and energies are given in eV.
Energy-dependent data for cross sections is typically valid in the range
from about 250 eV to about 200,000 eV.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   overview
   dbschema
   python
